[DOCS-15146] Add UDS section for Socket source (#38395)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/sources/socket.md

Set up this source when you [set up a pipeline][1]. You can set up a pipeline in the [UI][3], using the [API][4], or with [Terraform][5]. The instructions in this section are for setting up the source in the UI.

> **Note**:The Worker can only receive logs over TCP or UDP. If your application writes to a UNIX domain socket, see [UNIX domain sockets](#unix-domain-sockets) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Worker can only receive logs over TCP or UDP. If your application writes to a UNIX domain socket, see [UNIX domain sockets](#unix-domain-sockets) for more information.
```

{{% observability_pipelines/tls_settings_mtls %}}

### UNIX domain sockets

The Socket source only supports receiving logs over TCP or UDP. If your application writes to a UNIX domain socket (UDS), use `socat` to bridge it to a TCP or UDP socket to send logs to the Worker.

#### Standalone bridge

Run `socat` alongside your application to forward from the UNIX socket to the Worker:

```

> socat UNIX-RECV:/var/run/app.sock TCP:localhost:5000

Reviewer 2: Maybe we include an example of it sending to an endpoint that isn't localhost (this VM ip address or Load balancer URL) -- it won't always be guaranteed OPW will be running on the same host as socat, and socat needs to live on the host where the unix-domain socket is.

Author: Ah, okay make sense! Is this what you are thinking?

> socat UNIX-RECV:/var/run/app.sock TCP:<OPW_HOST>
> Replace `<OPW_HOST>` with the host IP address or the load balancer URL associated with the Observability Pipelines Worker.

Reviewer 2: Perfect! 👍

```

#### Kubernetes sidecar

> In Kubernetes, the Worker typically runs as a StatefulSet behind a Service, so it might not be reachable over `localhost`. Run `socat` as a sidecar container in the same pod as your application, and share a volume for the socket file. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes, the Worker typically runs as a StatefulSet behind a Service, so it win not be reachable over `localhost`. Run `socat` as a sidecar container in the same pod as your application, and share a volume for the socket file. For example:
```

Author: Did you mean to update to "will"?

Reviewer 2: haha, yes I did, my bad!

```yaml
volumes:
  - name: app-socket
    emptyDir: {}

initContainers:
  # Remove any stale socket file before the sidecar starts
  - name: socket-cleanup
    image: busybox:1.36
    command: ["sh", "-c", "rm -f /var/run/app/app.sock"]
    volumeMounts:
      - name: app-socket
        mountPath: /var/run/app

containers:
  # Your application container
  - name: app
    # ...
    volumeMounts:
      - name: app-socket
        mountPath: /var/run/app

  # socat sidecar: bridges the UNIX socket to the Worker's Service
  - name: socat-opw-bridge
    image: alpine/socat:1.8.0.0
    args:
      - UNIX-RECV:/var/run/app/app.sock,fork
      - TCP:<RELEASE_NAME>-observability-pipelines-worker.<NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local:5000
    volumeMounts:
      - name: app-socket
        mountPath: /var/run/app

>     resources:

Reviewer 2: Maybe a comment here `# monitor and tune resources as necessary` ?

Author: ```suggestion

# Monitor and adjust resources as necessary
    resources:
```

      requests:
        cpu: 10m
        memory: 16Mi

>       limits:

Reviewer 2: I know it my example I gave I had limits, but let's actually remove them here. CPU limits are bad as it will induce CFS throttling on the pod, requests guarantee that is what is available, but if there is spare node capacity it can burst if necessary. CFS maintains that across all pods requests no one pod can steal from another pod.

Author: Removed

        cpu: 100m

>         memory: 64Mi

Author: ```suggestion
```

    securityContext:
      runAsNonRoot: true
      runAsUser: 1000
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
```

> Point the `TCP` argument at the Worker's Kubernetes Service endpoint instead of `localhost` because the Worker's StatefulSet pods might not run on every node so the Worker pod might not be available in `localhost`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Point the `TCP` argument at the Worker's Kubernetes Service endpoint instead of `localhost` because the Worker's StatefulSet pods are not guaranteed to run on every node so the Worker pod might not be available in `localhost`. This is especially true if you have dedicated node groups for OPW and workloads.
```

{{% observability_pipelines/tls_settings_mtls %}}

> ### UNIX domain sockets

Reviewer: Just to confirm — would this potentially be better suited to an H2 heading, rather than nested as an H3 under "Setup"? It seems like it has enough content to warrant its own H2, and I'm not sure if this is a required part of setup. Feel free to ignore this suggestion if I'm incorrect about any of this!

Author: Thanks for bringing this up. I originally had it as an H2, but then thought maybe it should be under setup because it's part of the setup process. It is not a required part of the setup process though. I'll move to an H2. 

```suggestion
## UNIX domain sockets
```

> The Socket source only supports receiving logs over TCP or UDP. If your application writes to a UNIX domain socket (UDS), use `socat` to bridge it to a TCP or UDP socket to send logs to the Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Socket source only supports receiving logs over TCP or UDP. If your application writes to a UNIX domain socket, use `socat` to bridge it to a TCP or UDP socket to send logs to the Worker.
```

Reviewer: The abbreviation introduced here (UDS) isn't used anywhere on the page. Potentially, it could be moved to the first usage on line 24, and then this could be updated to "writes to a UDS". Up to you whether you want to move it or drop it entirely.

> #### Standalone bridge

Author: ```suggestion
### Standalone bridge
```

Run `socat` alongside your application to forward from the UNIX socket to the Worker:

```
socat UNIX-RECV:/var/run/app.sock TCP:<OPW_HOST>
```

Replace <OPW_HOST> with the host IP address or the load balancer URL associated with the Observability Pipelines Worker.

> #### Kubernetes sidecar

Author: ```suggestion
### Kubernetes sidecar
```

```yaml
volumes:
  - name: app-socket
    emptyDir: {}

initContainers:
  # Remove any stale socket file before the sidecar starts
  - name: socket-cleanup
    image: busybox:1.36
    command: ["sh", "-c", "rm -f /var/run/app/app.sock"]
    volumeMounts:
      - name: app-socket
        mountPath: /var/run/app

containers:
  # Your application container
  - name: app
    # ...
    volumeMounts:
      - name: app-socket
        mountPath: /var/run/app

  # socat sidecar: bridges the UNIX socket to the Worker's Service
  - name: socat-opw-bridge
    image: alpine/socat:1.8.0.0
    args:
      - UNIX-RECV:/var/run/app/app.sock,fork
      - TCP:<RELEASE_NAME>-observability-pipelines-worker.<NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local:5000
    volumeMounts:
      - name: app-socket
        mountPath: /var/run/app

# Monitor and adjust resources as necessary
    resources:
      requests:
        cpu: 10m
        memory: 16Mi
    securityContext:
      runAsNonRoot: true
      runAsUser: 1000
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
```

> Point the `TCP` argument at the Worker's Kubernetes Service endpoint instead of `localhost` because the Worker's StatefulSet pods are not guaranteed to run on every node so the Worker pod might not be available in `localhost`. This is especially true if you have dedicated node groups for OPW and workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Point the `TCP` argument at the Worker's Kubernetes Service endpoint instead of `localhost`. The Worker's StatefulSet pods aren't guaranteed to run on every node, so the Worker pod might not be reachable at `localhost`. This is especially true if you have dedicated node groups for the Worker and your workloads.
```

Reviewer: Minor suggestions to split up a long sentence, and since "OPW" doesn't seem to be defined anywhere on the page

Author: Good catch!
